docs/remix-guide (#1101)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/guides/remix.md

---
title: Connect a Remix application to Neon
subtitle: Set up a Neon project in seconds and connect from a Remix application
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2023-10-06T17:44:14.691Z'
---

> Remix is a full stack web framework that lets you focus on the user interface and work back through web standards to deliver a fast, slick, and resilient user experience. People are gonna love using your stuff.

Reviewer: Would you be open to making this a quote and linking to our website since this is the h1 copy?

Author: @danieltprice, that sounds like one for you.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense to me. Let's try the quote and link. If it looks odd, we'll revise.

2. Click **New Project**.
3. Specify your project settings and click **Create Project**.

## Create a Remix project and add dependencies

1. Create a Remix project if you do not have one. For instructions, see [Quick Start](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/start/quickstart), in the Remix documentation.

2. Add project dependencies using one of the following commands:

    <CodeTabs labels={["node-postgres", "postgres.js", "Neon serverless driver"]}>

      ```shell
      npm install pg
      ```

      ```shell
      npm install postgres
      ```

      ```shell
      npm install @neondatabase/serverless
      ```

    </CodeTabs>

## Store your Neon credentials

Add a `.env` file to your project directory and add your Neon connection string to it. You can find the connection string for your database in the **Connection Details** widget on the Neon **Dashboard**. For more information, see [Connect from any application](/docs/connect/connect-from-any-app).

<CodeBlock shouldWrap>

```shell
DATABASE_URL=postgres://[user]:[password]@[neon_hostname]/[dbname]
```

</CodeBlock>

## Configure the Postgres client

> TODO. Add explanation for why a `.db.server` file is required.
> 
> ### db.server
> 
> Create a `db.server.ts` file at the root of your `/app` directory add the following code snippet to connect to your Neon database:

Reviewer: Totally just a suggestion since you have this TODO.

```suggestion
### db.server

Create a `db.server.ts` file at the root of your `/app` directory. The [`*.server.ts` file convention](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/file-conventions/-server) ensures that Remix won't add this code into the client bundle. Add the following code snippet to connect to your Neon database:
```

Author: That's great! Thanks @brookslybrand

<CodeTabs labels={["node-postgres", "postgres.js", "Neon serverless driver"]}>

```javascript
import pg from 'pg';

const pool = new pg.Pool({
  connectionString: process.env.DATABASE_URL,
  ssl: {
    rejectUnauthorized: true,
  },
});

export { pool };
```

```javascript
import postgres from 'postgres';

const sql = postgres(process.env.DATABASE_URL, { ssl: 'require' });

export { sql };
```

```javascript
import { neon } from '@neondatabase/serverless';

const sql = neon(process.env.DATABASE_URL);

export { sql };

> ```

Reviewer: To avoid some pain with maxing out connection limits while running the dev server I've seen some guides adopt [this strategy](https://github.com/remix-run/indie-stack/blob/main/app/db.server.ts) which leverages this [singleton implementation](https://github.com/remix-run/indie-stack/blob/main/app/singleton.server.ts)

</CodeTabs>

### route

Create a new route in your `app/routes` directory and import the `db.server` file.  

<CodeTabs labels={["node-postgres", "postgres.js", "Neon serverless driver"]}>

```javascript
import { json } from '@remix-run/node';
import { useLoaderData } from '@remix-run/react';
import { pool } from '~/db.server';

export const loader = async () => {

>   const client = await pool.connect();

Reviewer: This is probably just my ignorance, but is there a reason you want to start the connection here vs in the `db.server.ts` file?

Author: That's a good point. This guide is the first one we've done where the database / connection are abstracted away. All our other guides show the import and connect in the one file. 

In this case I think I might make sense to move the connection to `db.server.ts`. Great suggestion!

Author: Ok, i've looked into this. I don't think it makes anything any clearer. I will need to check with some folks to see if there are any benefits to abstracting the pool.connect. This is what I ended up with.

```
import pg from 'pg';

const getDb = async () => {
  const pool = new pg.Pool({
    connectionString: process.env.DATABASE_URL,
    ssl: true,
  });

  const client = await pool.connect();

  return client;
};

export { getDb };
```

```
import { json } from '@remix-run/node';
import { useLoaderData } from '@remix-run/react';
import { getDb } from '~/db.server';

export const loader = async () => {
  const client = await getDb();

  try {
    const response = await client.query('SELECT version()');
    console.log(response.rows[0]);
    return json({ data: response.rows[0] });
  } finally {
    client.release();
  }
};

export default function Page() {
  const data = useLoaderData();
  return <pre>{JSON.stringify(data, null, 2)}</pre>;
}
```

  try {
    const response = await client.query('SELECT version()');
    console.log(response.rows[0]);
    return json({ data: response.rows[0] });
  } finally {
    client.release();
  }
};

export default function Page() {
  const data = useLoaderData();

> }

Reviewer: Totally up to you, but I'd recommend including an example where you are actually rendering something. I don't know what the data looks like exactly, but if it's just an object with a version you could do

```
export default function Page() {
  const data = useLoaderData()
  
  return (
    <h1>Version {data.version}</h1>
  )
```

Author: Also a good point. We have added a note under "Run the app" which explains what the server output should look like. In my test apps I use...

```
export default function Page() {
  const data = useLoaderData();

  return <pre>{JSON.stringify(data, null, 2)}</pre>;
}
```

```

```javascript
import { json } from '@remix-run/node';
import { useLoaderData } from '@remix-run/react';
import { sql } from '~/db.server';

export const loader = async () => {
  const response = await sql`SELECT version()`;
  console.log(response);
  return json({ data: response });
};

export default function Page() {
  const data = useLoaderData();
}
```

```javascript
import { json } from '@remix-run/node';
import { useLoaderData } from '@remix-run/react';
import { sql } from '~/db.server';

export const loader = async () => {
  const response = await sql`SELECT version()`;
  console.log(response);
  return json({ data: response });
};

export default function Page() {
  const data = useLoaderData();
}
```
</CodeTabs>

> ## Run the app

Reviewer: I think you might actually be missing the command to run the app
